+++
title = "Photoshoot"
author = ["Josh Rollins"]
publishDate = 2019-12-08T00:00:00-05:00
lastmod = 2019-12-29T09:16:05-05:00
draft = true
+++

I haven't picked up my camera for more than a week, and I was itching to take
photos. It's a feeling I've known since I could remember feelings. A mix of
unrest and uncertainty, much like a dog circling a room before a
walk. Well, a walk was necessary.

It was an un-inviting misty gray day. The sort of day when rain hasn't fully
given up to the fog, threatening in little needles; nothing like the
golden hour recommended in tutorials. It was midday and the sun
was nowhere to be seen.

I turned into a side street, leaving the constant "whoosh" sound of the cars passing by. The street lead to a nicer part of the neighborhood, and a building I passed many times before was shrouded in fog to my left. A tree stood naked in the driveway, covering some of the windows with dark zigzagging branches. The car in the driveway was parked diagonally, blocking the gate. Something
about this setting made me reach for my camera, and the dance began.

The first photo is usually not interesting. I know something made me want to snap a picture, but I'm not sure what that something was. The feeling is odd at first, almost like it's not there at all. I don't know if what I see is worth a shot or if I'm imagining I'm seeing something that is not really there. But after the camera's out, the mind starts getting more confident about seeing things a little bit differently. I starts my photowalk in a straight line, with a destination in mind, but by the time I'm back I walks in zigzags, climb on top of trash heaps and tree stumps, crouching behind cars, circling around seemingly meaningless objects.

A few hours later when I got home, the magic escalated to another level. Looking at the pictures, I started to get a feeling, as if the photos were whispering to me something. The more I looked through them, the more I started to be aware of what I'm saying, the  of it,

the photos stopped being individual samples of frozen time and started to merge and create a theme. I realized it wasn't the first time I'm "seeing" this way, but up to that point, it was quick glimpses. Now it was powerful enough to stand above everything else.

There was a hand in the shapes of the trees; long fingers in naked tree brunches; the squirrels I capture were black this time; the colors almost naturally black and white. I felt like writing a short story just from looking at the images, and I tried to capture some of it into Instagram. It was an amazing feeling, like electricity. I was laughing out loud, enjoying the fact I could get such stories out of photos.

The next week I was worried I won't be able to take such great photos again. It may sound silly, but my fear was based on the fact that I didn't know what I did, it just "happened". There was an idea when I took the photos; there was a subject, an idea of what I'm focusing on, but I didn't see the concept when I took the photos - that happened later in front of the computer. It was this part I was worried won't visit me again, and no photos would come as great. My urge to want to go out there again and see things overcame this fear eventually, and I went ahead. I managed to capture a few more good shots this time as well, and slowly calmed down.

If there's one thing photography is teaching me is this: you can't control everything you want. The weather, subjects of interest, even the amount of time you have. Those you can control are limited by the camera you carry and to a degree, your experience. You can't force a perfect shot, you can just chase it. You don't know what you're going to get at the end of the day, it's a bit of gamble, a game. I'm really enjoying this new expanding area of my life.