+++
title = "Switching to Kubuntu over opneSuSE"
author = ["Josh Rollins"]
publishDate = 2020-01-08T00:00:00-05:00
lastmod = 2020-01-11T21:53:53-05:00
tags = ["linux"]
draft = false
+++

[After giving openSuSE a try](https://joshrollinswrites.com/help-desk-head-desk/20191208/), I decided to switch to Kubuntu. So far it's been a month or so since the switch, and everything I want works to the point that I havne't booted into Windows once.

I ran into several issues with openSuSE and finally decided to call it quits when Company of Heroes 2, one of the few games I play, refused to work. When I contacted Linux support for it, the answer I got was along the lines "sorry, we don't support this version of Linux." My new Desktop Linux setup is not geared toward hardcore gaming is it was first intended when I built it, but I still want to spend some time gaming here and there. There were other issues, of course, mostly the need to download a specifically tailored software for something I needed.

With Kubuntu installed, I looked into installing windows on a VM. I ended up choosing [Oracle's Virtual Box](https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads) for its better integration with the Linux Kernel (latest version) and indeed, it runs pretty well. Windows now is in a confined frame used for occasional downloads and remoting to computers at work - this completely satisfies any need I need out of Windows at this point. After a bit of a hardware upgrade which hopefully will happen soon, I wouldn't even need to turn off the VM when I'm done.

The VM caused several "hijacking" issues of my keyboard and mouse, so I disconnected my [KVM swtich](https://joshrollinswrites.com/help-desk-head-desk/switching-to-manjaro/) and stored it away. Having a powerful desktop means my laptop is no longer in use unless I travel or need a backup. It still runs Manjaro and I think I will keep it this way.

I feel like my Linux setup is mostly complete at this point. My desktop ([which I call Hedwig](https://joshrollinswrites.com/help-desk-head-desk/20191208/)) is used for writing or productivity, photography and gaming.

<!--more-->