+++
title = "Powershell tutorial"
author = ["Josh Rollins"]
publishDate = 2020-03-08T00:00:00-05:00
lastmod = 2020-05-09T09:12:05-04:00
draft = true
+++

This is a short script that I wrote after a day of research at work. I am not a PowerShell expert, not even a rookie, but the need for automating repeated tasks combined with a good dose of curiosity and experience with some Bash automation sure goes a long way.

The script changes the network adapter's(WiFi, in this case) DNS' settings to specific IP addresses and suffixes to work in a certain domain(s). I will first dump the script here (with comments) and then go in depth and explain the whys and hows.

<!--more-->

First, as what is becoming a tradition, the script itself in all it's glory. Of course, internal IP addresses as well as my work domain have been removed:

```nil
<#
Comments?

can have more than one line in here
#>

# Get the instanceID from our Wi-Fi adapter, the same way it shows in the registry:

$wifi_adapter = (Get-NetAdapter -name "Wi-Fi").instanceID

# Add the DNS suffixes for our DNS settings in registry

Set-Itemproperty -path 'HKLM:\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Services\Tcpip\Parameters' -Name 'SearchList' -value 'small.domain.com,biggerdomain.com,even.another.domain.com'

# Add the DNS IP addresses to the right interface (Wi-Fi) which we got before. Note to self, need to use " and not ' when using variable in a path

Set-Itemproperty -path "HKLM:\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Services\Tcpip\Parameters\Interfaces\$wifi_adapter" -Name 'NameServer' -value '10.111.111.111,10.121.121.121,10.131.131.131,10.141.141.141,1.1.1.1,8.8.8.8'
```


## 1 {#1}

OK, so what's going on here.

The script starts with a comment. In PowerShell, anything between the `<#` and `#>` is a comment. Good to explain what the script does, when it was created, etc.

Then we dive in and start by defining a variable. We're going to use `$wifi_adapter` as a dead-simple indication of what this varible is going to contain. The magic start with a few PowerShell commands, which are called Cmdlets[^fn:1].

Now, note the syntax:

1.  The cmdlet itself is `Get-NetAdapter`.
2.  We "filter" the results we get from it by using paramater. That's the `-name` part. What are we looking for specifically? "Wi-Fi".
3.  Both of these are in parenthasis. That's because the next bit, the instanceID property, takes affect on the result of the _whole_ combination, Get-Netadapter and -name "Wi-Fi" together[^fn:2].
4.  Next, we take our expression in the parenthasis, and "filter" it for a single property, instanceID[^fn:3]. Why instanceID? We will get into that soon.
5.  Finally, we take the output of this command and store it into our wifi\_adapter veriable.

Whew. That was a lot. You're probably still confused especially because you don't understand yet _why_ we're doing what we're doing here. This part's coming up now.


## 2 {#2}

In order to change a certain way a computer works automatically (via script) we can't use the GUI. Things have to be done in the background, when we're not there. In Windows, the way to make changes is through the [Windows Registry](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Windows%5FRegistry). In brief, the registry is your Window's book of instructions that make it what it is. It's its DNA, in a way. That's why you need to be careful messing with it: you might end up with a mutation that will result in a blue screen of death the next time you reboot.

I knew I am looking for a certain way to isolate the wifi adapter going in. that's because the DNS changes implemented on this script are usually accessible to us via the GUI in network adapter settings. After a bit of Googling around and looking into the registry, I learned that the way the regsitry identifies network adapters is by their unique instance string.

In order to manipulate the right adapter with the script, I first had to find it in the registry. In our script, that's done by asking the computer (using PowerShell) "hey, what's the unique ID for the adapter that is named Wi-Fi adapter?" Or, more human like: "What's the Wi-Fi's adapter's unique ID?" Change Wi-Fi to "Ethernet" and you'd get your Ethernet unique ID[^fn:4].


## 3 {#3}

Now that we understand why we're looking for the adapter's uniqueID and how to find it, the rest of the scrip is pretty straight forward.

We use the `Set-Itempropery` cmdlet to change an item's property. In Powershell, cmdlets are usually structured in a verb-noun way that makes sense. So earlier we wanted to _get_ the instanceID as it is in the regsitry, and now we want to _set_ a property. Which property are we setting? We already know we want to change something in the registry, and that's where the `-path` comes in.

It might be hard to grasp, but the registry is just another folder on your computer, located in  `Windows\system32\config`. When we want to interact with it we usually fire up regedit to view everything, but regedit is just a viewing tool, another GUI that most of us associate so strongly with the resgistry that we think the tool itself is, in fact, the registry. Go ahead and navigate to the path described here using `CD\` and you see what I mean.

So, we ask powershell to modify an item  called "SearchList" which is inside HKLM:\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Services\Tcpip\Parameters. You can view it yoursef in goold ol' regedit. What's SearchList? That's the suffixes list for your domains, which we modify with `-value`. The Suffixes are the last part of a domain, usually what we are used to be .com or .net or whatever, but if you're in a big organization it can be .myorganization.com as well, as your company has subdomains.

I have my suffixes in my original script, this one has sample ones. You'd notice that the domains are seperated by a comma, same way they are seperated in the registry. We don't need our Wi-Fi instanceID here yet, because this part is not related to the adapter; the search list relates to all of them.

The last part of the script is similar. We use PowerShell to modify a value in the regsitry, but this time it's the specific adapter's DNS IP addresses. We got the value earlier. We start the same w ay here, with Set-Itemproperty, and the path is more specific as we get deeper into the regsitry. Look closely and you'll see our variable from before, wifi\_adapter, right there in the path with the $ sign in front of it - which is how we tell PowerShell to throw in the path into the text. Look in your registry with regedit and it will make even more sense.

Similar to the suffixes from before, the values are IP addresses seperated by commas. You will most likely have internal IP addresses, I just used a few bugous ones - besides the last two. 1.1.1.1 and 8.8.8.8 are cloudflare and Google's DNS, respectively.

[^fn:1]: "A cmdlet is a lightweight command that is used in the Windows PowerShell environment. The Windows PowerShell runtime invokes these cmdlets within the context of automation scripts that are provided at the command line." [You can read more about this on the official Micrsofot website](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/scripting/developer/cmdlet/cmdlet-overview?view=powershell-7).
[^fn:2]: If you're coming from Bash like I do, A similar effect can be achieved by piping: `Get-NetAdapter -name "Wi-Fi" | Format-List -property "instanceID"`. This, even though looks more complicated, might make sense to you as it did to me. The names in PowerShell are intuitive, so you can guess "Format-List" presents some sort of a list, and you can see that you're looking for a property named "InstanceID". You attach the two parts of the command with a pipe like you'd do in Bash. Read a bit more at step 4 and then come back here, see if this note makes even more sense then.
[^fn:3]: The `Get-NetAdapter` has _many_ properties. You can view a list of those by running `Get-NetAdapter | Get-Member -MemberType Property`. Notice that here we run Get-NetAdapter but this time we take the output and pipe it into another cmdlit, [Get-Member](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/module/microsoft.powershell.utility/get-member?view=powershell-7), which shows us a list of properties, members and methods. Since we only want properties, we ask it to show us only the type that is a property. Get-Member is a very helpful cmdlet which shows what options you have availble for other cmdlets, in this case, Get-NetAdapter.
[^fn:4]: Those of you with experience in PowerShell (which is not me, by the way) will probably have a problem with the script relaying only on "Wi-Fi" in the name as a way to identify the right adapter. After all, a computer can have several Wi-Fi adapters. For my specific needs in my work environment, where we get a laptop fresh out of the box and implement this script first, this works. However, I should probably narrow it down further by being more specific and identifying the Wi-Fi adapter that is running (status=up) or other means, like the manufacturer etc. I realized this as I was writing this post.