+++
title = "Coronoa and Logic"
author = ["Josh Rollins"]
publishDate = 2020-03-22T00:00:00-04:00
lastmod = 2020-03-26T08:59:20-04:00
draft = true
+++

Things in TAONAW HQ have been busy. My blog doesn't show it, but I have a long script tutorial waiting to be finished. Due to escalating pandemic, workload has been increasing as we shifted to remote support outside of our regular work hours. Things became more dramatic for me too when my partner told me someone at their workplace has been exposed to Corona, and suddenly I found myself a week at home with only brief visits to the grocery store or for a brisk walk outside.

<!--more-->

I'm due for a much needed vaction, but there's not much traveling to do right now. Still, having a break from what has become normal 10-hour work day of remote support is a blessing. I've been considering blogging more often through this pandemic, so perhaps this is a good time to talk about a few more personal things.

When I started this blog, mostly as a developing geeky experiment for Emacs and later Hugo go, I didn't want to involve too many personal details. This still remains the case: I believe most people who end up reading my blog are techies who are not too interested in the personal as much as the technical. Those of you who read between the lines however had their eyebrow raised once or twice because I use through around the term partner, refering to those I live with. I have two partners, and the three of us live together. It is, roughly speaking, a form of [polyamory](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Polyamory)[^fn:1]. There's no particular reason to bring this up now than at any other point besides that it's sometimes relavent to what I write here, and keeping some sort of a "log" through this period definitely falls into this category. I'm not particulalry secretive of my non-monogamous lifestyle, but I also don't advertise it.

The first days of social-distancing havn't been very sagnificant for me, to be honest. I usually stay away from large groups of people anyway, and I'm know to be one of the guys who leaves the party early. I've been an introvert for as long as I can remember. I also didn't stay stuck at home the etire week: I made sure to go out for walks


## Video Games That Keep Me Sane {#video-games-that-keep-me-sane}

As we go through this crsis,

[^fn:1]: A form of it because the term itself has become too loaded with different meanings to different people with the years. The questions of romantic, sexual, or otherwise emotional relationships with people seem to fit or not fit into too many boxes. Overall, I rather use the term non-monogamous. I feel that in this case, describing what I'm not is easier than describing what I am.
