+++
title = "Keeping a healthy routine during COVID19"
author = ["Josh Rollins"]
publishDate = 2020-07-23T00:00:00-04:00
lastmod = 2020-07-25T21:05:59-04:00
tags = ["self"]
draft = true
+++

It's been four months since COVID-19 started for me. I've been working from home, which means far less exercise than usual, especially with gyms closed in the city. Thankfully, I have a system that helps me to keep soemwhat active, and today I want to share it with you.

<!--more-->

Nothing I'm going to tell you here is going to be ground breaking. I'm pretty sure I picked up bits and pieces of ideas I've heard in various places and glued them together to something that makes sense to me. Still, or perhaps because of that, it's pretty effective without being too obnoxious.


## The Elements {#the-elements}

At some point in my life, I started basing what I consider to be healthy or wholesome living with the "elements". Those are Sleep, Exercise, Nutrion, and Meditation. I believe that if I do these four right, I can remain mostly healthy mentally and physically. Over time I developed exercises and routines for each one.

For sleep, the goal for me is 6.5 hours a night. I often sleep less (my avrage is around 5.5) and I try to make it up with a nap (20 minutes or so) when possible, usually in the afternoons. This doesn't always work, and there's no such thing as making up for lost sleep, but when I do take one of those powernaps I usually have energy for round two of productivity.

Exercise is the most complex, but the invidual exercises are simple. Running/jogging is probably the main one, followed by other classic ones like push-ups and crunches. As I got older, I made sure to add stretches and/or yoga poses into the mix. This sounds a lot, but in reality it isn't. It's really a mixed bag of things that keep me moving. I would proabably be more affective if I was to follow a specific list of exercises, and I'm working on that. Routine is the single most important things here.

For food, the rule of thumb is to keep it as simple as possible. If a food item has ingridients I don't understand or can't pronounce, I try to stay away from it. Of course, everything today has preservents and sugar (it's crazy how there's sugar in almost everything!), but I try my best. For example, I'd go to Subway to get a grilled chicken sandwhich where I choose what to put into it than a "signature sandwich" somewhere. I choose fresh vegtible where possible over anything that was frozen, proccessed, etc. These days I work in a large medical facility, which makes eating healtheir easier. Water is my main drink of choice, seconded only by coffee (I have 2 cups a day, 3 at most).

The most elusive element in the list is meditation. I often struggle to remember or slow down and simply sit down and breath. I have a very specific breath tecnique involving counting which helps. Usually 2 minutes of that help a whole lot and I can tell the difference; these days I'm pushing for 5 minute sagments.


## Score System {#score-system}

The score system is what makes everything moving during COVID-19. It's what keeps me motivated and allows me to impove. Here is how it works:

Every morning I get up and the first thing I do is go (as the coffee is brewing) is to go to my journal and write about yesterday's elements. One short paragraph for each. I reflect on what I did, and I give myself a score. For example, if I do my pushups, I get 1 point. If I eat home-made salad, that's also a 1. But if I decided to party and have pizza with beer that day, I'd give myself a -1. Then I add them all up and see. Some things give me more points; for example, running which is very challanging (especially in this heat) is worth 3 points. Each exercise individually though is half a point. The system is dynamic and I change it according to what I need to improve on. For example, if going to bed at the right time has been working out for a couple of weeks, it's time to move on and not give myself a point for it, and try to focous on sleeping more or taking my naps which will give me that point going forward.

Right now, an OK day is 3 points, a good day is 4, an excellent is 5, and a burnout (bad) is 6. I try to not go too crazy, becayse too much means the next day or the day after that I will not have the motivation to do as much. Aiming at the same rate of 3 or 4 points every day is the main goal for now as a healthy routine, which is the primary goal.


## The Fitbit advantage {#the-fitbit-advantage}

I'm not getting any money for saying this. One of the things that really help me keep track of my sleeping habits and exercise has been my fitbit which I actually haven't used a whole lot before COVID-19. When I went to the gym, I'd let it detect exercises automatically and never bothered with it too much. Now though, where an apportunity for an exercise means skipping the elevator and taking ths stairs, it's really helpful to see when I was active and for how long.

My Fitbit Ionic is also great at detecting when I fall asleep, and I find that it's accurate withing 5-10 minutes range at most. This helps me see how long I slept and if I should think of napping or not. There are planty of similar devices on the market, including Apple's iWatch and Android Wear made by different companies. I think it really comes in handy if you're like me and you need to be dynamic but still have a routine.


## The only point is to get better {#the-only-point-is-to-get-better}

When I started picking up on running again I was miles (literally) behind what I used to be able to do in the past. I couldn't even finish a single mile, I was constantly out of breath, and I was very discouraged. The score system helps, but only if you use it to reinforce the main goal: to get better.

If all you can do is 10 pushups, then you start there. Any good coach on earth would tell you there. 10 pushups a day this week means 12 pushups next week. And if you can't do pushups at all and have to use your knees, do that, and your goal would be to get to pushups.

At any given point, your goal is the horizon: It's just as hard to go from 10 pushups to 50 as it is from 200 to 500. That's because it's all relative to what you can do. Score yourself honestly and you'll make progress. Always keep going, and when you look back you'll be amazed at what you've done. Just keep doing it, and build your routine.