+++
title = "Thoughts About Ease of Use and Google"
author = ["Josh Rollins"]
publishDate = 2020-02-18T00:00:00-05:00
lastmod = 2020-02-18T09:20:24-05:00
draft = false
+++

It seems like hating on Google (or Apple, or Amazon, or whatever tech giant) is the hip thing to do these days. I want to raise a couple of points to argue otherwise.

<!--more-->

I've been running Linux full time at home [since last December](https://joshrollinswrites.com/help-desk-head-desk/20191208/) and I'm not looking back. I love the level of control I have, the lack of nagging updates with the potential of breaking everything, the transparency in the application I use through command line, and the overall productivity I get out of it. Witht he acception of a few specific applications, I miss nothing from the Windows days.

But that doesn't mean I can manage my life without Google. Not yet, not anytime soon, and I think that even if I had the choice, I won't really want to. The same is true for Amazon: it's a giant online retailer that chews away on mom-and-pop shops, draining my local business dry while more college folks move in and old ethentic groups move out. Sounds sinitster, but I'm not in a rush to stop using Amazon. As a matter of fact, since I moved to this neighborhood, I started using it even more and I don't think I'm going to stop any time soon.

You could say I'm part of the problem and I won't disagree with you. I rather use Google maps instead of relaying on hand-written instructions. I rather order something online and have it in my hands two days later than to spend half an hour in a messy Riteaid, look for a product they don't carry anymore, and buy a replacement for two bucks more just because I live in New York City.

There's no lack of smartphones out there that are not made by Google, but there's only one phone that good enough _and_ cheap[^fn:1] enough _and_ has consistant security patches _and_ is not one of those 6.5 inches monsters that I can't use comfortably. There are Linux phoen availble, but they are seemingly expensive prototypes which cannot compete with the apps Google Android has.


## Footnotes {#footnotes}

[^fn:1]: That's the Google Pixel a line, _not_ the Google Pixel flagship line, which seems to be expensive just because Apple can get away with it.
