+++
title = "Not Writing About Privacy"
author = ["Josh Rollins"]
publishDate = 2020-11-10T00:00:00-05:00
lastmod = 2020-11-10T08:18:21-05:00
draft = false
+++

-   intro

    <!--more-->

Whenever I start writing about privacy I feel negative. It's a complex feeling. Part of it is the nagging feeling that I'm doing something "wrong" or even "illegal." Years of social conditioning about how we shouldn't have nothing to hide or sneaking around safeguards companies put out there to, partially, protect us from "hackers" has borrowed deep into my brain. There's a good world, an ignorant world, a world padded by walls made by companies whose services we depend on day in and day out, and I don't want to undo this feelings on this blog.

There's also the depressing lonely part of it, a deep pit that I don't like to dwell in. There aren't many outside sources that really lay out how to do things from a to z. Everything I've discovered and continue to learn is a collection of tips and guides baked into my own recpie, and no-one's comming for dinner. These sorts of stragedies cannot be discussessed publically, but this forum _is_ public, and I want to keep it this way. Discussing with others is important to me.

-   It feels wrong as in "illegal" and depressing

Then there's the part that TAONAW is not a good example of annoyimity. While I created this blog under an alias and the account his hosted on a seperate account on Github, it wasn't meant to shielf my privacy. It was created to create a writing environment with emphasis on productivity.

If I ever create a true privacy pulic document, then it fits that it would be as private as I could get it, a result of the studies I've done so far. TAONAW is not this place, and it shouldn't be this place for the reasons I expressed above.

-   It's not private, this blog isn't

Learning didn't take me down a clear path. It has been a challange of picking up hints and finding up breadcumbs. It is a fluid skill that I have to keep learning as I go, keeping me on my toes. It is diffiuclt, challanging, depressing, pressuring. You can't just learn it, you have to earn it, as a reult of conditioning your own mind. This is not something I can express in writing. Only those who are really obsessed with the idea find the holes they're looking for, and to hand them out on a platter just goes against one of its primary principles. Tou have to be a bit crazy to find some of these things, and that sort of crazy need to be experienced first hand.

-   It's a certain right of passage. I had to discover it myself, so should you.